hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the Microsoft
Surface 3 so this is Microsoft's
cheapest smallest and I guess newest
tablet and it's quite a bit cheaper than
their surface pro 3 so let's see what we
get
let's kick this off with a quick
unboxing here it's a horizontal slide
open box unlike the normal top open
boxes and when you slide it open tablet
sitting there underneath the surface is
a bunch of pamphlets and on the right is
a small box containing the AC adapter so
we'll get into details of all these
things in a little bit the surface 3 has
an optional keyboard that they call the
type cover but it really is an integral
part of the surface experience so you
kind of need to spend $130 to get this
accessory so the unit here is running an
Intel Atom x7 it's got 64 gigs of
storage a 10.8 inch screen that runs at
nineteen twenty by twelve eighty two
gigs of ram and the type cover and this
setup here over on you $500 for the
tablet and 130 dollars for that keyboard
so the top of this tablet is entirely
glass there's a capacitive button here
which is a Windows button two speakers
on your left and right and a webcam and
mic up top the back of the tablet and
basically the whole body of it is made
out of a magnesium alloy it's a pretty
lightweight material but it has a
distinctly different feel from aluminum
and like all surface tablets there's a
kickstand now unlike the pro model you
can't just tilt it to whichever position
you want there's three set positions you
can put it in or you can close it
completely so I'm just going to bring
you around the tablet so you can take a
look on the sides on this side you have
a headphone jack micro USB charging port
a USB 3 port and a mini DisplayPort you
can connect a second display at 2560 by
1440 now I tried this point quite
frankly this device is a little
underpowered for that the video output
gets choppy and so does the device when
I spin it over you can see the six pin
connection for the magnetic keyboard and
on this side there's no ports or
anything and the last side you have
Hardware volume buttons as well as your
power button to back to those kickstand
positions there are three positions but
I find that first position not very
useful the second position is the one
you'd use normally for typing on your
lap and the third position well if
you're standing and looking down the
surface like if you're cooking and
looking
a recipe this kind of works for that but
it's not a great angle typing on the
keyboard isn't particularly comfortable
so this is the second position and after
a few minutes the kicks end kind of digs
into your legs and the whole experience
just feels really cramped I've used
surface tablets before and I use this
one for over a week and I think that's
just the way it is it's not a very
comfortable notebook experience now the
keyboard is actually pretty good it's
tactile it's clicky and I love that blue
color it's got pretty good travel but it
is very cramped and the directional keys
are in that weird configuration again
one thing I noticed though right out of
the box is that this thing smells like
latex paint like a freshly painted room
it just smelled like paint now after a
couple of days it kind of off gassed
itself and it doesn't smell anymore but
it does smell weird at first
now the trackpad okay this thing
probably deserves a video of its own
this trackpad is incredibly small it's
about the size of a matchbox but it is
one of the best track pets have ever
used in a windows-based machine and I've
used a lot of them it's super smooth it
tracks well it clicks well and seriously
I wish a larger version of this trackpad
was on every single Windows machine out
there okay on to the display it's a
1080p touchscreen and it looks really
nice Microsoft gave the surface 3 a much
more tablet friendly screen ratio so
movies and TV shows still look good but
it's much more usable for just the
regular tablet experience the viewing
angles are pretty good but because it's
a Glaus screen you're going to have some
reflections overall though I think it's
a really great screen and just out of
curiosity I threw a spider on there I
had to run it at lower res but it comes
in at 74% for Adobe RGB which was
surprisingly good for a tablet like this
drive speeds were surprisingly low now
just for reference a good consumer grade
SSD would get about 400 or 450 megabytes
per second read and write so these
numbers are pretty disappointing but to
be fair on a device like this you're
probably not going to be needing
superfast drive speeds anyways there is
one other port on this device so
underneath the kickstand there is a slot
for a mini SD card the only mini SD card
I have is the one in my dashcam so I
popped it in I just wanted to see if it
could play 1080p movies and it can the
video ran really smooth and tracking was
quick as well so keep in mind that you
can upgrade your storage for media files
pretty easily with these cards the rear
facing camera is 8 megapixels it works
but it's a tablet camera so whatever
there's two speakers on the front and
they sound okay I mean they're great for
a tablet but they're pretty quiet for a
notebook here's what they sounds like
there is an optional accessory which is
the surface pen so this thing is 50
bucks but I'm using the pen from my
surface pro 3 I'm pretty sure it's
exactly the same like it does on the pro
the pen works really well and the fresh
paint app is as snappy on this device as
it is on the surface pro now there is a
bit of a hiccup when changing colors and
brushes sometimes but for the most part
it feels pretty good now personally I
don't use the pen much on these tablets
the tech is pretty good but I can't draw
freehand at all so I just never use it
for that now for people who do like to
draw though this combo is nice
it has good pressure sensitivity and
there isn't much lag even running on the
Atom processor for note-taking and
handwriting
I've tried this a lot on the surface pro
3 and I just never liked it
I'm sure some people love this function
but my handwriting is already bad and
writing on a tablet just amps that up so
yeah it's just not for me but if you're
interested in this kind of tech the
surface tablets do it well I took some
thermal footage while this one was
running prime95 so that's a benchmark
program it's pushing all 4 cores and I
wanted to see how hot this thing got and
it's really pronounced when you look on
the back of the device
it's actually pretty warm there but you
tend not to hold it at that spot so it's
not a big deal as expected gaming on
this thing isn't great I was getting
about 20-25 frames per second for dota
and heroes and for League I was getting
a little bit better but it's still not
playable and when there's a lot of stuff
on screen the frame rates dropped to
single digits Kenneth strick was similar
I mean the frame rates were a little
better but in general this is definitely
not a gamers device and to round this
off just a little bit about battery life
I got about seven and a half hours
browsing the web and also about seven
and a half hours playing videos off the
drive these numbers are actually pretty
good for a notebook but it's kind of
cruddy for a tablet so I guess it really
depends on how you want to look at this
device the AC adapter is pretty small
it's only 13 watts but it takes a
surprisingly long time to charge this
thing you actually want to put it to
sleep to charge it at a respectable rate
we're talking like five and a half six
hours to charge it from zero to full if
you're not using it and if you're using
it lightly we're talking like 12 plus
hours but if you're watching a movie or
something it's not even going to charge
it's just going to power the device so
it's kind of crazy I feel like they
should have given a more robust charging
system but I think this is the best that
micro USB 2.0 can do okay so the bottom
line when you use the surface three as a
note
okay it's not a great experience the
screen is small and the keyboard is
small the trackpad is small and even
though everything works reasonably well
it's not a very enjoyable experience you
can get work done but you kind of make
compromises to be able to get it done
and you're not very comfortable doing it
and the same thing applies when you're
using as a tablet so as a tablet it's a
little bit better than when you use it
as a notebook but again it's a still an
uncomfortable experience it's not very
ergonomic and Windows 8.1 never felt
like a great tablet OS to begin with and
it just doesn't the whole product feels
kind of mediocre it's not about the
performance the device I mean the device
was never designed to be super fast so
I'm actually very content with how it
performs the hardware is actually pretty
solid the screen the keyboard the
trackpad all mechanically very good the
problem lies in usability I feel like
the user experience is really
compromised whether you use it as a
tablet or a notebook it's uncomfortable
its cramped and there's edges that dig
in when you use it as a tablet and it
just feels like I've settled for
mediocrity so that's really what you get
a mediocre notebook and a mediocre
tablet combined into one mediocre hybrid
device now if this was four or five
hundred dollars that'd be okay but it's
not it's six hundred and thirty dollars
and at that price point you can get a
really good ultra book or a pretty
decent notebook or a great tablet so
unless you really need a hybrid device
I'd skip the Surface three so that's the
end of the review I hope you guys liked
it if you did give me some thumbs and if
you loved it give me some subs it's been
nice I'll see you guys next time
you